# CS305: Software Security

<br> <b><i>Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address? </b></i>
<br> Artemis Financial is a financial consulting firm that creates financial plans for their customers. These financial plans can range from savings to insurance. The issue that Artemis Financial has is that the public web application that they are creating is not as secure as they would like it to be. It is their goal to when data is transferred from one endpoint to another that there are measures in place to ensure that the connection is secure and that the application is able to verify through data verification like checksum that the data is arriving at its intended location. Artemis Financial reached out to Global Rain to create these security measures.
<br>
<br> <b><i>What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?</b></i>
<br> One thing (I hope) I did particularly well in identifying Artemis Financial's software security vulnerabilities was examining their base codes and spotting errors that could lead to a possible security breech in the future. For example, pinpointing areas in the code where a hacker would be able to inject malicious code or intercept a connection between client and server. It is important to code securely because often times the only barrier between a company's private information and those that wish to access it is reliable coding. The value that software security adds to a company's overall wellbeing, first and foremost, a reliable defense against costly damage that could be done by attackers. If, for example, an attacker manages to steal private information from customers and leak it online, the customers can create a lawsuit against the company itself for not taking proper measures to protect their data. Security is also a great feature in marketing to customers themselves. A company can attract more customers towards their application (and thus business) by offering proof that they are reliable when it comes to protecting data.
<br>
<br> <b><i>What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?</b></i>
<br> The part of the process of working through the vulnerability assessment that I found challenging was the dependency report. It is an entirely new concept for me, so throughout the course I struggled to connect different terminologies with different processes, and understand what it was exactly that some of these dependencies were supposed to accomplish when they operated correctly. One great thing about the dependecy report, though, is that it is very thorough. I was able to connect to various databases like NIST and MITRE to find more information when I came across a vulnerability that I did not completely understand.
<br>
<br> <b><i>How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?</b></i>
<br> My approach to increasing layers of security was to (a) recall the requests of the client and (b) putting myself in the shoes of someone who would be using the application. With all of the data breaches happening to major companies in recent years, I would understand why a patron of a company like Artemis Financial would not want to use a website that did not have secure connections. In the future, as I become more familiar with coding and security, I would like to approach databases as an attacker to test if I am able to break into the system. By doing this, I will be able to compile a list of things that malicious hackers may be able to do, and add more layers of security to stop them before it happens.
<br>
<br> <b><i>How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?</b></i>
<br> I ensured that the code and software application was functional and secure by returning to the requests that Artemis Financial made, and testing whether I was able to meet those needs with the finished product. I also compared what a successful, secure application looked like to what I created to examine if there was anything that I overlooked. In order to check if I introduced new vulnerabilities, I created a dependency report with the initial code, created a dependency report with the refactored code, and examined there were vulnerabilities in the refactored report that were not in the initial report. I also researched if any remaining vulnerabilities required suppression by looking if there were any available solutions available.
<br>
<br> <b><i>What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?</b></i>
<br> The two resources that I used that would be helpful in future assignments is the Iron Clad Java textbook and posts from StackOverflow. I also learned through using Eclipse that the software itself will recommend useful solutions to problems. This tool allowed me to not only fix errors in my code, but also provided new techniques for me to research so that I may use them again in future tasks. 
<br>
<br> <b><i>Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?</b></i>
<br> When it comes to this assignment, something I would want to showcase to a future employer is my ability to find solutions to problems using various resources. As new threats are introduced, research will be necessary in order to understand them. It is my hope that showcasing the skill to fill in gaps in my understanding with the wide array of tools available online will show that I can work independently and adapt to new changes when it comes to creating secure code.
<br>

